# Urban-Violence-Rio-de-Janeiro-2018-2019
Study of urban violence in Rio de Janeiro between 2018 and 2019 based on data from Fogo Cruzado.

Wilson Witzel, a far-right former judge and ex-marine, won the governorship of Rio de Janeiro State in October 2018. He declared war to gangs and favelas. He implemented a new policy in January 2019 against urban violence in the state : the security agents are authorized to shoot-to-kill people if there are violent events and can used lethal force against suspect. He declared the state of Rio de Janeiro will become the safest state in Brazil, due to more policemen in the favelas. On the other hand, NGOs and inhabitants feared this policy will change nothing or generate more violence. We will thus explore in this note : How did urban violence evolved since the election of the new governor ?


Even if it is very early to draw conclusions, it seems that the number of police deaths is decreasing, confirming that the licence to kill implemented by Witzel to protect the police agents is effective for them. But this also hides an increase of civilian deaths.The overall urban violence in Rio de Janeiro seems to have dropped in the last few months, but the data might be flawed and thus this result needs to be verified in six months.Another interesting result concerns the location of armed violence incidents revealing that zones ruled by milicias saw a higher decrease in urban violence, suggesting that peace agreements through corrupted police and politicians linked to milicias and Witzel governorate could have happened.It is too early and too limited to formulate any policy recommendations, but this preliminary study suggests the need for further research about the proportion of civilians and polices killed (and maybe the authors of the killings), and the links between milicias and Witzel.
